## Microsoft-Maleware-Classification

### Dataset : 
   **Source** : [Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/c/malware-classification/data) 
   
   
   **Discription** : Dataset consist of .asm and .bytes files which are generated by PC on installing any software. Corresponding to each .asm and .bytes files (i.e for each software) there are labels. So we have to classify the every given set of .asm and .bytes files into one of the 9 Classes.
   
   
## Approch used : 

* Feature extraction for Bytes files : 
     * Since the  bytes files contains only hexadecimal number system values. So I used bag of words for Bag of words for feature extraction for both unigram and bigram features.
     * The numbers of bigram feature was more than 31k so truncated SVD algorithm was used for dimentionality reduction.
        
       
* Feature extraction for .asm files : 
     * I again used custom Bag of word fo feature extaction. First I cleaned the content of .asm files on the basis of literature than implemented feature extraction over it.
     * Image based pixel level feature extraction for .asm files. ( This idea is derived from top submissin of kaggle.) [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VLQTRlLGz5Y#t=13m11s)

* Feature Selection.
     * I have used lightGBM feature importance for the feature selection method.
               
Model : 
    * All the machine learning models were trid for the classification task on .bytes and .asm files seperatly and later combining them to see the results.
    * LightGBM performed best giving LOGLOSS : 0.009.
  
## What I learnt from this task?

* Handiling such a large amount of compressed data (256 GB nearly) with the limited resources for processing.
* Using custom implementation when the data don't fit into ram.
* Using parallel programming to inhance the speed for feature extraction.
* Advanced feature extraction and feature selection techniques.

   
   
